%!TEX root = Thesis.tex
\chapter{Related Works}
\label{cha:related_works}

The problem of finding free parking lots receives more attention with the
continuous growth of the cities and their population. As far as we have found
out, we can divide the works in the field in two main categories depending on
the sensor setup. The detection of the parking lots is either carried out via
the usage of static-mounted cameras or the on-vehicle sensor systems. We will
further focus more on each of these options.

\section{Detection with static monocular cameras} % (fold)
\label{sec:detection_with_monocular_cameras}

To the best of our knowledge, the main purpose of such systems is to simplify
the sensor setup for occupancy detection in the modern parking garages. These
works differ in the features utilized for car detection as well as in methods
of clustering these features.

\cite{qizhang06} presents an unsupervised system to monitor the occupied
parking slots. The authors were using a stationary monocular camera to detect
parked vehicles. In their \todo{their or his?} work, car detection is solely
based on color. The authors use the support vector machines (SVM) to cluster
the features to distinguish between occupied and free parking lots. They pre-
process the ground truth images of the parking lots and search for color
differences between the measurements and the ground truth measured for an
empty parking lot.

\cite{nicolastrue} shows a similar approach. Alike with the previous papers he
presents an unsupervised system for parking lots detection. The author uses an
overhead static camera. He uses human-labeled parking lots' positions to
define the spacial arrangement of the parking lots. The author distributes
chrominance channels of the images from the camera into bins, storing a
histogram of these values for each parking lot, then he classifies these
histograms as free or occupied using either k-nearest neighbors or SVM\@. He
also presents a variant of the work based on classifying color patches
situated around corner detector's regions of interest, but he proves it to be
less efficient.

\cite{tschentscher} utilizes a static monocular camera and shows a comparison
of different features for occupancy analysis. As in the works mentioned above,
the authors propose using an overhead camera pointing to the parking lots,
which are manually labeled in the images. They study the influence of the
visual features such as color histograms, gradient histograms, difference of
Gaussian histograms and Haar features on the detection performance. They also
explore the variance in methods for training a classifier based on the chosen
feature set, such as k-nearest neighbors, linear discriminant analysis and
SVM\@. They achieve detection rate of 98\% while performing in real time.

\cite{ichihashi} shows a system that uses a set of overhead cameras for
occupancy detection in indoor and outdoor scenes. The focus is set on the
clustering algorithms, showing that the performance of the detector based on
the fuzzy c-means (FCM) clustering and the hyper-parameter tuning by particle
swarm optimization (PSO) outperforms SVM both in speed and accuracy of
detection.

\cite{chingchun10} and~\cite{chingjao10}, use a static monocular overhead
camera and a 3-layer Bayesian hierarchical framework  (BHF) the authors of the
paper specifically addressed the challenges of vacant parking space inference
that come from dramatic luminance variations, shadow effect, perspective
distortion, and the inter-occlusion among vehicles showing great detection
rates of up to 99\%.

Some works change the focus from detecting the parked cars to detecting the
appearance of the markers pre-painted on each parking lot.

\cite{yusnita12} proposes a system to detect occupancy status of the parking
lots of indoor parkings. They are using an overhead, strictly vertically
oriented camera. The parking lots are manually labeled by a marker that states
their occupancy state. For each query parking lot the authors produce a binary
image which is then analyzed to find if the parking lot is empty or occupied.
This process is carried out by comparing the shape of the detection with the
shape of the prior that reassembles the circle shape of the marker drawn on
the floor of the parking slot. % section detection_with_monocular_cameras
(end)

\section{In-vehicle detection} % (fold)
\label{sec:in_vehicle_detection}

The main area of interest for us is the in-vehicle detection of the parking
lots. We are specifically interested in the works that present approaches
relying on the fusion of sonar/laser data with visual information.

\cite{fintyelvestri} and~\cite{abadvestri} model free parking lots locally
based on the 3D sonar sensor mounted on the car with conjunction with a visual
3D estimation setup based on the tracking of the interest points in the images
seen from different angles.

In these papers the authors use the ultrasonic sensor and 3D vision sensor
that detects points of interest on the bodies of the parked cars and tracks
them to compare their positions from different points of view. The cars are
then modeled by vertical planes of two different orientations that are fit
into the 3D data from the sensors. The authors model the empty parking lots by
empty spaces between the planes.

\cite{vladimircoric} also moves focus from static overhead cameras on the
developed parking lot to estimating parking lots for on-street parking. They
\todo{he????} use an ultra-sonic sensor mounted to the side of the car to
estimate the parking possibilities along particular streets. The authors use a
straightforward threshold method to distinguish between free and occupied
space. They also make use of an idea that the more time a car was observed in
a place the more it is likely that the space occupied by this car is a valid
parking spot. As a result all measurements were incorporated with the GPS
measurements to form a global map of parked cars, which the authors used to
detect wrongly parked cars.

Following the focus on the in-vehicle sensor setup,~\cite{schmid11} utilizes
an on-board short-range radar. The measurements from three radars are stored
into a 3D occupancy grid, that represents the local surroundings of the car.
Free parking lots are then detected on the given grid by analyzing occupancy
grid cells on curb and on other parked cars. This provides an estimate of the
parking lot in 3D that allows for precise parking.

\cite{suhr10} proposes a system that is able to detect parking lots from 3D
data acquired from stereo-based multi-view 3D reconstruction. The authors
select point correspondences using a de-rotation- based method and mosaic 3D
structures by estimating similarity transformation. While relying solely on
this information and not using the odometry they are able to achieve reliable
results with the detection rate of 90\%

Some works, however focus not on car detection, but on detecting the parking
slots markings which can prove to be useful when analyzing a free outdoor
parking.

A fully automatic system for detection of parking slots' markings is presented
by~\cite{suhr13}. The authors utilize a tree structure performing a bottom-up
and a top-down approach in order to classify all parking slots as such and
leave out all false detections.

% section in_vehicle_detection (end)

\section{The contribution of this thesis} % (fold)
\label{sec:the_contribution_of_this_thesis}

In this thesis, following the works in \nameref{sec:in_vehicle_detection}, we
present a system that is capable of detecting parked cars utilizing the in-
vehicle sensor setup, consisting of a stereo camera or a monocular camera
fused with laser range finder. We also extend this functionality by estimating
the occupancy probability for each parking lot in a global map and
additionally present a planner capable of efficiently finding a route to a
free parking lot.

% section the_contribution_of_this_thesis (end)

\todo{My own contribution???}
